Booklet 07-08 Section 6
Paragraph:
<b>Passage 1</b>
It is striking how our culture has wholeheartedly
adopted the recycling ethic. Most parents have probably
received humbling lectures from their children after tossing
a glass jar or newspaper in the trash can. But the popularity
of recycling is even more surprising considering the incon-
veniences associated with it. Who hasn’t experienced the
annoyance of trying to satisfy complicated rules about what
can and cannot be recycled? Glass jars — but not their tops?
Plastics number 1 and 2— but not number 3? Still there is
no sign that the public is becoming impatient, so convinced
are people of the virtues of recycling
<b>Passage 2</b>
Mandatory recycling programs aren’t good for posterity.
They offer mainly short-term benefits to a few groups—
like politicians and waste-handling corporations—while
diverting money from genuine social and environmental
problems. Recycling programs actually consume resources.
They require extra administrators and a continual public
relations campaign explaining what to do with dozens of
different products—recycle milk jugs but not milk cartons,
index cards but not construction paper. Collecting a ton of
recyclable items is three times more expensive than collect-
ing a ton of garbage because crews pick up less material
at each stop. Recycling may be the most wasteful activity
in the modern United States: a waste of time and money,
a waste of human and natural resources.
--end--

9. Which statement best characterizes the relationship between Passage 1 and Passage 2 ?
(A) Passage 1 presents ethical objections to an action that Passage 2 also censures.
(B) Passage 1 mocks a group of people that Passage 2 praises.
(C) Passage 1 describes a cultural phenomenon that Passage 2 criticizes.
(D) Passage 1 discusses the historical foundations of recycling, whereas Passage 2 considers the future of recycling.
(E) Passage 1 describes people’s fascination with recycling, whereas Passage 2 explains the process of sorting recyclables.

10. Unlike Passage 1, Passage 2 focuses primarily on recycling’s
(A) philosophical foundations
(B) economic impact
(C) popular appeal
(D) moral implications
(E) environmental benefits

11. The author of Passage 2 would most likely characterize the “people” mentioned in line 11 as
(A) emotional
(B) indecisive
(C) unmotivated
(D) undemanding
(E) uninformed

12. The authors of both passages would most likely agree that recycling rules are
(A) convoluted
(B) commendable
(C) unethical
(D) antiquated
(E) unenforceable

13. Compared to the tone of Passage 2, the tone of Passage 1 is more
(A) pessimistic
(B) arrogant
(C) critical
(D) scholarly
(E) tempered

-----
Paragraph:
<blurb>This passage is taken from a novel set in early twentieth-
century England. Mrs. Deverell is the widow of a shop-
keeper who lived and worked in Volunteer Street; their
daughter Angel has become a best-selling novelist. Here,
Mrs. Deverell finds herself in a new home that she and
Angel share in the prosperous village of Alderhurst.</blurb>

“I never thought I would live in such a beautiful place,”
Mrs. Deverell told Angel when they first moved in. But
nowadays she often suffered from the lowering pain of
believing herself happy when she was not. “Who could
be miserable in such a place?” she asked. Yet, on misty
October evenings or on Sundays, when the church bells
began, sensations she had never known before came
over her.
She sometimes felt better when she went back to see
her friends on Volunteer Street; but it was a long way to
go. Angel discouraged the visits, and her friends seemed
to have changed. Either they put out their best china and
thought twice before they said anything, or they were
defiantly informal—“You’ll have to take us as you find
us”—and would persist in making remarks like “Pardon
the apron, but there’s no servants here to polish the grate.”
In each case, they were watching her for signs of grandeur
or condescension. She fell into little traps they laid and
then they were able to report to the neighbors. “It hasn’t
taken her long to start putting on airs.” She had to be
especially careful to recognize everyone she met, and
walked up the street with an expression of anxiety which
was misinterpreted as disdain.
The name “Deverell Family Grocer” stayed for a long
time over the shop, and she was pleased that it should,
although Angel frowned with annoyance when she heard
of it. Then one day the faded name was scraped and burnt
away, and on her next visit to Volunteer Street, she saw
that “Cubbage’s Stores” was painted there instead. She felt
an unaccountable panic and dismay at the sight of this and
at the strange idea of other people and furniture in those
familiar rooms. “Very nice folk,” she was told. “She’s
so friendly. Always the same. And such lovely kiddies.”
Mrs. Deverell felt slighted and wounded; going home
she was so preoccupied that she passed the wife of the
landlord of The Volunteer without seeing her. “I wouldn’t
expect Alderhurst people to speak to a barkeep’s wife,”
the woman told everyone in the saloon bar. “Even though
it was our Gran who laid her husband out when he died.”
All of their kindnesses were remembered and brooded
over; any past kindness Mrs. Deverell had done—and
they were many— only served to underline the change
which had come over her.
At a time of her life when she needed the security of
familiar things, these were put beyond her reach. It seemed
to her that she had wasted her years acquiring skills which
in the end were to be of no use to her: her weather-eye for
a good drying day; her careful ear for judging the gentle
singing sound of meat roasting in the oven; her touch for
the freshness of meat; and how, by smelling a cake, she
could tell if it were baked. These arts, which had taken
so long to perfect, fell now into disuse. She would never
again, she grieved, gather up a great fragrant line of
washing in her arms to carry indoors. One day when they
had first come to the new house, she had passed through
the courtyard where sheets were hanging out: she had
taken them in her hands and, finding them just at the right
stage of drying, had begun to unpeg them. They were
looped all about her shoulders when Angel caught her.
“Please leave work to the people who should do it,” she
had said. “You will only give offense.” She tried hard
not to give offense; but it was difficult. The smell of
ironing being done or the sound of eggs being whisked
set up a restlessness which she could scarcely control.
The relationship of mother and daughter seemed to
have been reversed, and Angel, now in her early twenties,
was the authoritative one; since girlhood she had been
taking on one responsibility after another, until she had
left her mother with nothing to perplex her but how to
while away the hours when the servants were busy and
her daughter was at work. Fretfully, she would wander
around the house, bored, but afraid to interrupt; she was
like an intimidated child.
--end--

14. Which interpretation of Mrs. Deverell’s statement in line 1 (“I never . . . place”) is most fully supported by the rest of the passage?
(A) It reveals an unsatisfied longing for beauty and comfort.
(B) It suggests that Mrs. Deverell is unprepared for her new life.
(C) It illustrates Mrs. Deverell’s desire to impress her old friends.
(D) It hints at Mrs. Deverell’s increasing discomfort with her daughter’s career.
(E) It indicates Mrs. Deverell’s inability to be happy in any environment.

15. The “sensations” (line 7) might best be described as feelings of
(A) anger and bitterness
(B) reverence and gratitude
(C) dejection and isolation
(D) nostalgia and serenity
(E) empathy and concern

16. The primary purpose of the second paragraph (lines 9-23) is to show Mrs. Deverell’s
(A) surprise that her friends have not forgotten her
(B) nostalgia for her old neighborhood
(C) feelings of superiority toward her friends
(D) embarrassment about her former neighborhood
(E) changing relationship with her friends

17. The author most likely quotes Mrs. Deverell’s friends in lines 14-16 in order to
(A) voice a concern
(B) dismiss a belief
(C) illustrate an attitude
(D) cite an authority
(E) mock an undertaking

18. The speaker of the sentence quoted in lines 15-16b(“Pardon . . . grate”) most likely intends to
(A) account for a peculiar style of dress
(B) bemoan the lack of adequate help around the house
(C) frankly apologize for the messiness of the family’s home
(D) indirectly express resentment about a difference in social status
(E) overtly call attention to Mrs. Deverell’s arrogant behavior


19. Mrs. Deverell’s reaction to the remarks quoted in lines 32-33 suggests that she thinks that these remarks
(A) contain an implicit criticism
(B) mischaracterize the new family
(C) are a poor attempt at humor
(D) stem from an old grudge
(E) insult the memory of her husband

20. Lines 40-43 (“All of . . . her”) suggest which of the following about the customers in the saloon bar?
(A) They do not recall those occasions when Mrs. Deverell was kind to them.
(B) They feel that Mrs. Deverell is still essentially the same person that she has always been.
(C) They are not especially well acquainted with Mrs. Deverell.
(D) They are more generous toward themselves than they are toward Mrs. Deverell.
(E) They do not generally share the opinions of the barkeeper’s wife.

21. Lines 45-52 (“It . . . disuse”) suggest which of the following about the way that Mrs. Deverell had viewed the task of running a household?
(A) She had believed some elements of it were beneath her.
(B) She had understood the importance of its sensory aspects.
(C) She had developed a regimented system.
(D) She had been afraid to ask Angel for her help.
(E) She had relied on household help to perform certain chores.

22. The use of “arts” in line 51 most directly emphasizes the
(A) pride Mrs. Deverell’s family took in her housekeeping skills
(B) expertise Mrs. Deverell brought to her household tasks
(C) importance of maintaining an orderly home (D) rewards of preparing elaborate meals
(E) pleasure Mrs. Deverell found in teaching young servants


23. Angel’s comments in lines 60-61 (“‘Please . . . offense’”) imply that
(A) Mrs. Deverell has inadequate housekeeping experience
(B) many people enjoy the opportunity to perform household tasks
(C) Mrs. Deverell often hurts the feelings of others
(D) domestic tasks are unsuitable for Mrs. Deverell’s new social status
(E) Mrs. Deverell is not a particularly efficient worker

24. In line 69, “perplex” most nearly means
(A) trouble
(B) bewilder
(C) astonish
(D) entangle
(E) embarrass

25. In line 73, the author compares Mrs. Deverell to an “intimidated child” primarily in order to
(A) criticize Mrs. Deverell for her naive view of the world
(B) show that Mrs. Deverell continues to be diminished in her new home
(C) imply that Mrs. Deverell cannot live up to her responsibilities
(D) indicate the simplicity of Mrs. Deverell’s new life
(E) justify Angel’s dismissal of her mother’s feelings
-----














