Booklet 07-08 Section 9
Paragraph:
<blurb>In the following passage from a newspaper commentary
written in 1968, an architecture critic discusses old
theaters and concert halls.</blurb>
After 50 years of life and 20 years of death, the great
Adler and Sullivan Auditorium in Chicago is back in
business again. Orchestra Hall, also in Chicago, was
beautifully spruced up for its sixty-eighth birthday. In
St. Louis, a 1925 movie palace has been successfully
transformed into Powell Symphony Hall, complete with
handsome bar from New York’s demolished Metropolitan
Opera House.
Sentimentalism? Hardly. This is no more than a
practical coming of cultural age, a belated recognition
that fine old buildings frequently offer the most for the
money in an assortment of values, including cost, and
above all, that new cultural centers do not a culture
make. It indicates the dawning of certain sensibilities,
perspectives, and standards without which arts programs
are mockeries of everything the arts stand for.
The last decade has seen city after city rush pell-mell
into the promotion of great gobs of cultural real estate. It
has seen a few good new theaters and a lot of bad ones,
temples to bourgeois muses with all the panache of sub-
urban shopping centers. The practice has been to treat the
arts in chamber-of-commerce, rather than in creative,
terms. That is just as tragic as it sounds.
The trend toward preservation is significant not only
because it is saving and restoring some superior buildings
that are testimonials to the creative achievements of other
times, but also because it is bucking the conventional
wisdom of the conventional power structure that provides
the backing for conventional cultural centers to house the
arts.
That wisdom, as it comes true-blue from the hearts and
minds of real estate dealers and investment bankers, is that
you don’t keep old buildings; they are obsolete. Anything
new is better than anything old and anything big is better
than anything small, and if a few cultural values are lost
along the way, it is not too large a price to pay. In addition,
the new, big buildings must be all in one place so they will
show. They’ll not only serve the arts, they’ll improve the
surrounding property values. Build now, and fill them later.
At the same time, tear down the past, rip out cultural
roots, erase tradition, rub out the architectural evidence that
the arts flowered earlier in our cities and enriched them and
that this enrichment is culture. Substitute a safe and sanitary
status symbol for the loss. Put up the shiny mediocrities of
the present and demolish the shabby masterpieces of the
past. That is the ironic other side of the “cultural explosion”
coin. In drama, and in life, irony and tragedy go hand in
hand.
Chicago’s Auditorium is such a masterpiece. With its
glowing, golden ambiance, its soaring arches and super-
stage from which whispers can be heard in the far reaches
of the theater, it became a legend in its own time. One of
the great nineteenth-century works of Louis Sullivan and
Dankmar Adler and an anchor point of modern architectural
history, it has been an acknowledged model of acoustical
and aesthetic excellence. (Interestingly, the Auditorium is
a hard theater in which to install microphones today, and
many modern performers, untrained in balance and pro-
jection and reliant on technical mixing of sound, find it
hard to function in a near-perfect house.)
Until October 1967, the last performance at the Auditor-
ium was of Hellzapoppin’ in 1941, and the last use of the
great stage was for bowling alleys during the Second World
War. Closed after that, it settled into decay for the next
20 years. Falling plaster filled the hall, and the golden ceil-
ing was partly ruined by broken roof drains. Last fall the
Auditorium reopened, not quite in its old glory, but close
to it. The splendors of the house were traced in the eight-
candlepower glory of carbon-filament lightbulbs of the
same kind used in 1889 when the theater, and electricity,
were new. Their gentle brilliance picked out restored archi-
tectural features in warm gilt and umber.
We have never had greater technical means or expertise
to make our landmarks bloom. The question is no longer
whether we can bring old theaters back to new brilliance,
but whether we can fill them when they’re done. As with
the new centers, that will be the acid cultural test.
--end--

7. The principal function of the opening paragraph is to
(A) introduce the concept of conventional arts centers
(B) illustrate the trend toward revitalization of cultural landmarks
(C) explore the connection between classical architecture and the arts
(D) provide an explanation for the theater’s resurgent popularity
(E) contrast the beauty of old theaters with ordinary modern buildings


8. On the basis of information provided in the rest of the passage, the word “death” (line 1) best conveys
(A) flagging attendance
(B) wartime malaise
(C) demolition
(D) neglect
(E) disrepute

9. The bar mentioned in line 7 had apparently been
(A) costly but symbolic
(B) beautiful but outdated
(C) enlarged and elongated
(D) treasured and imitated
(E) rescued and relocated

10. The question in line 9 is intended to
(A) expose the folly of the new construction
(B) convey the emotional burdens of the past
(C) provide a typical explanation for the renovations
(D) lament the decline of cultural values
(E) address the public’s indifference toward old buildings

11. In lines 13-14, the phrase “new . . . make” most directly suggests that
(A) modern architects lack the artistic reputations of their predecessors
(B) the commercial treatment of culture encourages art that is mass-produced
(C) culture evolves out of tradition and cannot be instantly created
(D) historically significant venues positively influence the creative process
(E) new cultural centers should be constructed in collaboration with artists

12. The description in lines 20-21 (“temples . . . centers”) best serves to
(A) scorn the architects’ commitment to historically accurate renovations
(B) mock the timeworn theatrical works showcased in modern cultural centers
(C) deprecate the appearance and character of many new theaters
(D) downplay the government’s efforts to support the arts
(E) poke good-humored fun at commercial establishments

13. As described in lines 17-23, the “practice” refers to the
(A) commercialization of culture
(B) preservation of cultural treasures
(C) construction of shopping centers
(D) government funding of the arts
(E) distortion of theatrical works

14. In lines 27-30, the author uses the word “conventional” several times in order to
(A) reveal the performers’ frustration with modern theaters
(B) disparage the present-day treatment of the arts
(C) parody the creative efforts of contemporary artists
(D) emphasize the absurdity of a purely aesthetic approach to the arts
(E) exaggerate the importance of tradition in the arts

15. The fifth paragraph (lines 31-39) primarily serves to
(A) criticize the way in which cultural buildings are viewed as commodities
(B) assess the positive impact of the architects’ backlash against mediocrity
(C) contrast the business practices of real estate brokers with those of bankers
(D) enumerate the costs and benefits of restoring historic landmarks
(E) question the importance of the arts to society

16. What does the imagery in lines 40- 43 suggest?
(A) The dawning of an enlightened artistic sensibility has stimulated support for preserving historic theaters.
(B) The ill-conceived mandate to destroy architectural masterpieces epitomizes the censorship of creative expression.
(C) The desire for societal status symbols drives the construction of grandiose cultural centers.
(D) The demolition of a historic landmark is tantamount to the destruction of an invaluable cultural legacy.
(E) The restoration of intimate old theaters will speed the demise of large new arenas.

17. In lines 49-56, the description of the building primarily serves to
(A) convey an appreciation for the technical complexities of renovating theaters
(B) illustrate how nineteenth-century architecture directly influenced modern building design
(C) highlight some unique aspects of an example of fine architecture
(D) explain why some people disdain innovative architecture
(E) show how restoration can strip a building of its unique character

18. In lines 56-60, the author’s comment about microphones implies that
(A) the near-perfect acoustics in a new theater divert attention from the building’s aesthetic flaws
(B) audience members seated in the theater’s balcony cannot fully appreciate the nuances of the performers’ intonations
(C) the performances of modern-day actors tend to be overly dependent on technology
(D) the absence of technically sophisticated equipment has jeopardized the sound quality of performances
(E) old theaters can remain viable because they readily accommodate the new sound technology that enhances a performance

19. Which challenge is emphasized by the author in the final paragraph (lines 73-77) ?
(A) Designating theaters as historical landmarks
(B) Renewing a respect for architecture
(C) Providing opportunities for new artists
(D) Reviving classical plays
(E) Attracting appreciative audiences
-----

