Section 5 Booklet 08-09
Chau
(1) On September 10, 1973, the United States Postal
Service issued a stamp honoring Henry Ossawa Tanner
(1859-1937), one of four stamps in the American Arts
series. (2) Acclaimed as an artist in the United States and
Europe at the turn of the century, Tanner was called the
“dean” of art by W. E. B. Du Bois. (3) But after his death,
Tanner’s work was largely forgotten. (4) And so it
remained, and even later, in 1969, the donation of one of
his paintings to the Smithsonian Institution aroused new
interest in the art of this American master. (5) Now his
works are on exhibit again. (6) You can even buy posters of
his paintings!
(7) One of his most famous works is a realistic painting
by the name of “The Banjo Lesson.” (8) It was inspired by
a poem of Paul Laurence Dunbar. (9) The painting isn’t
like a photograph. (10) The magnificence of his work can
be seen with each subtle brush stroke, each carefully
crafted detail. (11) The effect is truly beautiful. (12) If I
were to try to identify the dominant theme of the painting, I
would have to say that it is family cohesiveness because the
entire scene seems to emphasize the bond between the boy
and his grandfather.
--end--

30. Which is the best version of the underlined part of sentence 2 (reproduced below) ?
<i>Acclaimed as an artist in the United States and Europe at the turn of the <un>century, Tanner was called the “dean” of art by W. E. B. Du Bois</un>.</i>
A. (as it is now)
B. century; Tanner was called the “dean” of art by W. E. B. Du Bois
C. century, Tanner, who was called “dean” of art by W. E. B. Du Bois
D. century, W. E. B. Du Bois calling Tanner the “dean” of art
E. century, it was W. E. B. Du Bois who called Tanner the “dean” of art

31. Which is the best version of the underlined portion of sentence 4 (reproduced below) ?
<i>And so it <un>remained, and even later, in 1969</un>, the donation of one of his paintings to the Smithsonian Institution aroused new interest in the art of this American master.</i>
A. (as it is now)
B. remained, and even after that, in 1969,
C. remained, but even then, in 1969,
D. remained until 1969, when
E. remained when in 1969

